[DOC-5240] Add PCI-DSS concept (#14741)
cockroachdb/docs: cockroachcloud/pci-dss.md

---

> title: Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) compliance in CockroachDB Cloud Dedicated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) Compliance in CockroachDB Cloud Dedicated
```

Reviewer: titles are heading case

summary: Learn about compliance with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) for CockroachDB Cloud Dedicated clusters.
toc: true
docs_area: manage.security
---

> The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is a series of requirements for the safe handling of sensitive data associated with credit and debit cards. In the PCI DSS standard, and in the rest of this article, this data is referred to as "cardholder data". When implemented correctly, PCI DSS helps to protect your organization and your customers from fraud. PCI DSS is mandated by credit card issuers but administered by the [Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is a series of requirements for the safe handling of sensitive data associated with credit and debit cards. In the PCI DSS standard, and in the rest of this page, this data is referred to as "cardholder data". When implemented correctly, PCI DSS helps to protect your organization and your customers from fraud. PCI DSS is mandated by credit card issuers but administered by the [Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/).
```

Reviewer: Probably not in the style guide, but everywhere else, self references are to "page".

{% include v22.1/dedicated-pci-compliance.md %}

> Responsibility for compliance with PCI DSS is shared among multiple parties, including card issuers, banks, software-as-a-service (SaaS) providers, and retail merchants. Compliance measures are implemented as a series of business practices, security controls, and technological solutions. An organization's compliance with PCI DSS is certified by a PCI Qualified Security Assessor (QSA).

Reviewer 2: Perhaps at some point we'll want to link from here to a doc about the process for requesting NDA for access to our audit reports and compliance resources? Or even just say ask your account team?

> This article provides information about {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}'s compliance with PCI DSS, describes some of the ways that {{ site.data.products.db }} implements and enforces compliance, and illustrates some of the types of changes you may need to implement outside of your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters. For detailed instructions and working examples, refer to [Integrate {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} with Satori](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/satori-integration.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page provides information about {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}'s compliance with PCI DSS, describes some of the ways that {{ site.data.products.db }} implements and enforces compliance, and illustrates some of the types of changes you may need to implement outside of your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters. For detailed instructions and working examples, refer to [Integrate {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} with Satori](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/satori-integration.html).
```

## Overview of PCI DSS

When a system complies with PCI DSS, the system meets the goals of the standard by implementing a series of twelve requirements, according to a PCI Qualified Security Assessor (QSA). The following table, which is published in Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council's [PCI DSS Quick Reference Guide, version 3.2.1](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/PCI_DSS-QRG-v3_2_1.pdf), summarizes the goals and requirements of PCI DSS.

<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Goal</th>
  <th>PCI DSS Requirement</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>

>   <td>Build and Maintain a Secure Network and Systems</td>

Reviewer 2: These are well and good for a first pass, but it would be great to expand these and relate them to CRDB and CC features that help to address the requirements. I could see either you or myself taking a pass at that a bit down the road when have a clearer scoping of what the complete set of features will be when we roll stuff out ~January

Reviewer 2: I created a ticket and assigned it to myself, although it would be great if you could take it on @mdlinville as you have already acquired some context on it.

>   <td><i>Build and Maintain a Secure Network and Systems</i></td>

Reviewer: Why are the items in the first column italicized? It makes them harder to read and I don't think we have a style prescription to do it.

Author: I was playing around with formatting, initially had the goals in bold but it was too much. I'll just remove the special formatting.

  <td><ol>

>           <li>Install and maintain a firewall configuration to protect cardholder data</li>

Reviewer: All ordered list items should end with a period.

Author: I had left off the periods because the original list doesn't (consistently) use them. I've added them now.

>           <li>Install and maintain a firewall configuration to protect cardholder data</li>

Reviewer: All these numbered items are incremented continuously in every row in the table. I don't think that was the intention was it?

Reviewer: OK, I see the `ol start` annotation but it seems odd that the numbering continues.

Author: It was the intention, as it's exactly how the table is in the source document.

      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Protect Cardholder Data</td>
  <td><ol start="3">
        <li>Protect stored cardholder data</li>
        <li>Encrypt transmission of cardholder data across open, public networks</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Maintain a Vulnerability Management Program</td>
  <td><ol start="5">
        <li>Protect all systems against malware and regularly update antivirus software or programs</li>
        <li>Develop and maintain secure systems and applications</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Implement Strong Access Control Measures</td>
  <td><ol start="7">
        <li>Restrict access to cardholder data by business need to know</li>
        <li>Identify and authenticate access to system components</li>
        <li>Restrict physical access to cardholder data</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Regularly Monitor and Test Networks</td>
  <td><ol start="10">
        <li>Track and monitor all access to network resources and cardholder data.</li>
        <li>Regularly test security systems and processes</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Maintain an Information Security Policy</td>
  <td><ol start="12">

>         <li>Maintain a policy that addresses information security for all personne..</li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <li>Maintain a policy that addresses information security for all personnel.</li>
```

  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>

> {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} is certified by a PCI Qualified Security Assessor (QSA) to be compliant with PCI DSS, as long as you take the actions outlined in [How can you ensure your cluster's compliance with PCI DSS?](#how-can-you-ensure-your-clusters-compliance-with-pci-dss).

Author: ```suggestion
{{ site.data.products.dedicated }} is certified by a PCI Qualified Security Assessor (QSA) to be compliant with PCI DSS, as long as you take the actions outlined in [How to ensure your cluster's compliance with PCI DSS?](#how-to-ensure-your-clusters-compliance-with-pci-dss).
```

> ## How can you ensure your cluster's compliance with PCI DSS?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to ensure your cluster's compliance with PCI DSS
```

Cockroach Labs cannot provide specific advice about what is required for compliance with PCI DSS or how to implement a specific requirement. The following points help to illustrate some steps that organizations might take to help to ensure compliance..

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
The following list is provided only to illustrate a small subset of the measures you might need to take to ensure compliance.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

- Before you insert cardholder data into the cluster, you must first protect it by a combination of encryption, hashing, masking, and truncation. For an example implementation, refer to [Integrate CockroachDB Dedicated with Satori](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/satori-integration.html).
- The cryptographic materials used to protect cardholder data must themselves be protected at rest and in transit, and access to the unencrypted key materials must be strictly limited only to approved individuals.

> - Within the cluster, you must restrict access to cardholder data on a "need to know basis" authorized individuals have access to tables and views in the cluster that contain cardholder data, and you must regularly test for compliance. Refer to [Authorization](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/authorization.html).

Reviewer: This is hard to parse: you must restrict access to cardholder data on a "need to know basis" authorized individuals have access to tables and views in the cluster that contain cardholder data

Author: I reworded this.

---
title: Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) Compliance in CockroachDB Dedicated
summary: Learn about compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) for CockroachDB Dedicated clusters.
toc: true
docs_area: manage.security
---

> The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is a minimum set of requirements for the safe handling of sensitive data associated with credit and debit cards. In the PCI DSS standard, this data is referred to as "cardholder data". When implemented correctly, PCI DSS helps to protect cardholder data from fraud, exfiltration, and theft. PCI DSS is mandated by credit card issuers but administered by the [Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/).

Reviewer 3: Per style guide:

```suggestion
The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is a minimum set of requirements for the safe handling of sensitive data associated with credit and debit cards. In the PCI DSS standard, this data is referred to as "cardholder data." When implemented correctly, PCI DSS helps to protect cardholder data from fraud, exfiltration, and theft. PCI DSS is mandated by credit card issuers but administered by the [Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/).
```

> Many organizations who do not store cardholder data still rely upon compliance with PCI DSS to help protect other sensitive or confidential data or metadata.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Many organizations that do not store cardholder data still rely on compliance with PCI DSS to help protect other sensitive or confidential data or metadata.
```

> Responsibility for compliance with PCI DSS is shared among multiple parties, including card issuers, banks, software-as-a-service (SaaS) providers, and retail merchants. Compliance measures are implemented as a series of business practices, security controls, and technological solutions. An organization's compliance with PCI DSS is certified by a PCI Qualified Security Assessor (QSA).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Responsibility for compliance with PCI DSS is shared among multiple parties, including card issuers, banks, software as a service (SaaS) providers, and retail merchants. Compliance measures are implemented as a series of business practices, security controls, and technological solutions. An organization's compliance with PCI DSS is certified by a PCI Qualified Security Assessor (QSA).
```

Author: I don't think this is correct, because "software-as-a-service" is an adjective here, modifying "providers".

> CockroachDB Dedicated has been certified by a QSA as a PCI DSS [Level 1 Service Provider](https://www.pcidssguide.com/what-are-pci-service-provider-compliance-levels/). This certification extends the existing [SOC 2 Type 2 certification](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/soc-2-compliance-2/) of {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}, which provides a baseline level of security controls to safeguard customer data.

Reviewer 3: Use the liquid variable for CockroachDB Dedicated here.

Also, I wonder if this doc should specify at the top that PCI DSS certification applies specifically to Dedicated. It currently reads more like a reference for PCI DSS in general rather than for how it affects Dedicated clusters.

Reviewer 3: Alternatively, perhaps all the paragraphs preceding this one can be moved under the "Overview of PCI DSS" heading below?

This page provides information about {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}'s compliance with PCI DSS, describes some of the ways that {{ site.data.products.db }} implements and enforces compliance, and illustrates some of the types of changes you may need to implement outside of your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters.

## Overview of PCI DSS

> When a system complies with PCI DSS, the system meets the goals of the standard by implementing a series of requirements, as assessed by an independent PCI Qualified Security Assessor (QSA). The following table, which is published in Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council's [PCI DSS Quick Reference Guide, version 3.2.1](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/PCI_DSS-QRG-v3_2_1.pdf), summarizes the goals and requirements of PCI DSS.

Reviewer 3: This was already spelled out earlier.

```suggestion
When a system complies with PCI DSS, the system meets the goals of the standard by implementing a series of requirements, as assessed by an independent PCI QSA. The following table, which is published in Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council's [PCI DSS Quick Reference Guide, version 3.2.1](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/PCI_DSS-QRG-v3_2_1.pdf), summarizes the goals and requirements of PCI DSS.
```

<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Goal</th>
  <th>PCI DSS Requirement</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>

>   <td>Build and Maintain a Secure Network and Systems</td>

Reviewer 3: For the items in this column (Goal):

- I'm not sure they need to be in title case. Maybe they can just be sentence case?
- Append each line with a period to match the enumerated list in the next column? Our style may be vague on this.

I realize you're replicating the table in the PCI DSS reference, but it should probably match our style here.

        <li>Encrypt transmission of cardholder data across open, public networks.</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Maintain a Vulnerability Management Program</td>
  <td><ol start="5">
        <li>Protect all systems against malware and regularly update antivirus software or programs.</li>
        <li>Develop and maintain secure systems and applications.</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Implement Strong Access Control Measures</td>
  <td><ol start="7">
        <li>Restrict access to cardholder data by business need to know.</li>
        <li>Identify and authenticate access to system components.</li>
        <li>Restrict physical access to cardholder data.</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Regularly Monitor and Test Networks</td>
  <td><ol start="10">
        <li>Track and monitor all access to network resources and cardholder data.</li>
        <li>Regularly test security systems and processes.</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Maintain an Information Security Policy</td>
  <td><ol start="12">
        <li>Maintain a policy that addresses information security for all personnel.</li>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>

> {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} has implemented the requirements outlined in [PCI DSS 3.2.1](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/SAQ_D_v3_Merchant.pdf) within the DBaaS platform. For customers to take advantage of that compliance, they should take the actions outlined in [Responsibilities of the customer](#responsibilities-of-the-customer).

Reviewer 3: To match the use of second-person earlier in this doc and elsewhere in our docs.

```suggestion
{{ site.data.products.dedicated }} has implemented the requirements outlined in [PCI DSS 3.2.1](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/SAQ_D_v3_Merchant.pdf) within the DBaaS platform. To take advantage of that compliance, you should take the actions outlined in [Responsibilities of the customer](#responsibilities-of-the-customer).
```

## Responsibilities of Cockroach Labs

Cockroach Labs takes actions to ensure that the operating procedures and the deployment environment (the platform) for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters meet or exceed the requirements of PCI DSS 3.2.1. Some of these actions include:

- Enforcing comprehensive security policies and standards.
- Providing periodic security training for all Cockroach Labs employees.

> - Hardening our operating environments and networks according to industry standards and recommended practices, to ensure that they are secure and resilient against vulnerabilities and attacks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Hardening our operating environments and networks according to industry standards and recommended practices to ensure that they are secure and resilient against vulnerabilities and attacks.
```

- Encrypting cluster data and metadata at rest and in transit.
- Regularly scanning our environment using tools designated by PCI as [Approved Scanning Vendors (ASVs)](https://www.pcidssguide.com/what-is-a-pci-approved-scanning-vendor-asv/) to ensure our continued compliance with PCI DSS 3.2.1, and correcting issues as quickly as possible.
- Regularly scanning our environment and software for known security vulnerabilities and applying updates and security patches in a timely manner.
- Implementing [data loss prevention (DLP)](https://pcidss.com/listing-category/data-loss-protection-dlp) tools and techniques.

> - Logging cluster actions and events, redacting sensitive information in audit logs, and retaining audit logs according to the [logging requirements of PCI DSS](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/Effective-Daily-Log-Monitoring-Guidance.pdf).

Reviewer 3: Is it worth linking to our audit logs documentation here?

A comprehensive list of all actions that Cockroach Labs takes to ensure compliance with PCI DSS 3.2.1 is beyond the scope of this document. For more information, contact your Cockroach Labs account team.

Compliance is a shared responsibility. Be sure to read [Responsibilities of the customer](#responsibilities-of-the-customer) to ensure that your cluster is compliant.

## Responsibilities of the customer

To ensure that a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster complies with PCI DSS 3.2.1, you must enable and configure the following cluster settings and features:

> - The dedicated cluster must be created as a [private cluster](private-clusters.html). A private cluster's nodes have no public IP addresses, and its egress traffic moves over private subnets and through a highly-available NAT gateway that is unique to the cluster. An existing cluster cannot be migrated to be a private cluster.

Reviewer 3: dedicated -> CockroachDB Dedicated (liquid tag)

> - The dedicated cluster must be created as a [private cluster](private-clusters.html). A private cluster's nodes have no public IP addresses, and its egress traffic moves over private subnets and through a highly-available NAT gateway that is unique to the cluster. An existing cluster cannot be migrated to be a private cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
- The {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster must be created as a [private cluster](private-clusters.html). A private cluster's nodes have no public IP addresses, and its egress traffic moves over private subnets and through a highly-available NAT gateway that is unique to the cluster. An existing cluster cannot be migrated to be a private cluster.
```

> - [Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK)](cmek.html) must be enabled on the cluster. CMEK protects data at rest in a CockroachDB Dedicated cluster using a cryptographic key that is entirely within your control, hosted in a supported cloud provider key-management system (KMS). It enables file-based encryption of all new or updated data, and provides additional protection on top of the storage-level encryption of cluster disks.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK)](cmek.html) must be enabled on the cluster. CMEK protects data at rest in a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster using a cryptographic key that is entirely within your control, hosted in a supported cloud provider key-management system (KMS). It enables file-based encryption of all new or updated data, and provides additional protection on top of the storage-level encryption of cluster disks.
```

- [Egress Perimeter Controls](egress-perimeter-controls.html) must be enabled, Egress Perimeter Controls ensure that cluster egress operations, such as customer-managed cluster backups or changefeeds, are restricted to a list of specified external destinations.

> - [Cluster log export](export-logs.html)'s redaction feature must be enabled to prevent the exposure of sensitive data in logs exported to the customer's instance of AWS Cloudwatch or GCP Cloud Logging.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Cluster log exports](export-logs.html) must have the redaction feature enabled to prevent the exposure of sensitive data in logs exported to your instance of AWS CloudWatch or GCP Cloud Logging.
```

> - [Cloud Organization audit logs](cloud-org-audit-logs.html) automatically capture information when many types of events occur in your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization, such as when a cluster is created or when a member is added to or removed from an organization.

Reviewer 3: Does this need to be enabled or exported? It currently just describes the feature, but not whether you have to do anything with it.

Author: Good point, added the Limited Access note and gave a little more. context.

- Cockroach Labs recommends enabling the following Single Sign-On (SSO) features, which helps you minimize the risk of password exposure in {{ site.data.products.db }}:

>   - [Cloud Organization SSO](configure-cloud-org-sso.html) allows members of your CockroachDB Cloud organization to authenticate to CockroachDB Cloud using an identity from an identity provider (IdP). This integration can be done using SAML or OIDC.

Reviewer 3: Use liquid for CockroachDB Cloud

>   - [Cloud Organization SSO](configure-cloud-org-sso.html) allows members of your CockroachDB Cloud organization to authenticate to CockroachDB Cloud using an identity from an identity provider (IdP). This integration can be done using SAML or OIDC.

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Cloud Organization SSO](configure-cloud-org-sso.html) allows members of your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization to authenticate to {{ site.data.products.db }} using an identity from an identity provider (IdP). This integration can be done using SAML or OIDC.
```

>   - [Cluster SSO](cloud-sso-sql.html) allows users to connect to the SQL interface of a CockroachDB cluster using a JWT (JSON Web Token). A variety of JWT issuers can be configured, including CockroachDB Cloud (for connectivity using cloud CLI), GCP service accounts, Azure managed identities, and others.

Reviewer 3: Ditto

> Cockroach Labs cannot provide specific advice about ensuring end-to-end compliance of your overall system with PCI DSS or how to implement a specific requirement across all operating environments. The following points help to illustrate some steps that organizations might take to ensure compliance, and is not exhaustive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Cockroach Labs cannot provide specific advice about ensuring end-to-end compliance of your overall system with PCI DSS or how to implement a specific requirement across all operating environments. The following points describe some steps that organizations might take to ensure compliance, and is not exhaustive.
```

- Safeguard cardholder data by a combination of encryption, hashing, masking, and truncation. For an example implementation, refer to [Integrate {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} with Satori](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/satori-integration.html).

> - Protect unencrypted cryptographic materials  both at rest and in transit. Restrict access to unencrypted key materials on a "need to know" basis.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Protect unencrypted cryptographic materials both at rest and in transit. Restrict access to unencrypted key materials on a need-to-know basis.
```

> - Restrict access to tables and views that contain cardholder data on a "need to know basis" basis. Refer to [Authorization](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/authorization.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Restrict access to tables and views that contain cardholder data on a need-to-know basis. For details on configuring user access, refer to [Authorization](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/authorization.html).
```

> - Take steps to protect networks that transmit cardholder data from malicious access over the public internet. Refer to [Network Authorization](network-authorization.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Take steps to protect networks that transmit cardholder data from malicious access over the public internet. For details on configuring network access, refer to [Network Authorization](network-authorization.html).
```

- Regularly test all systems, applications, and dependencies that are involved in storing or processing cardholder data for known vulnerabilities.

## See also

> - [Integrate {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} with Satori](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/satori-integration.html)

Reviewer 3: Maybe add `[Authorization](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/authorization.html)` to this list?

> - [Integrate {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} with Satori](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/satori-integration.html)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Authorization](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/authorization.html)
- [Integrate {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} with Satori](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/satori-integration.html)
```

        <li>Encrypt transmission of cardholder data across open, public networks.</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Maintain a Vulnerability Management Program</td>
  <td><ol start="5">
        <li>Protect all systems against malware and regularly update antivirus software or programs.</li>
        <li>Develop and maintain secure systems and applications.</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Implement Strong Access Control Measures</td>
  <td><ol start="7">
        <li>Restrict access to cardholder data by business need to know.</li>
        <li>Identify and authenticate access to system components.</li>
        <li>Restrict physical access to cardholder data.</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Regularly Monitor and Test Networks</td>
  <td><ol start="10">
        <li>Track and monitor all access to network resources and cardholder data.</li>
        <li>Regularly test security systems and processes.</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Maintain an Information Security Policy</td>
  <td><ol start="12">
        <li>Maintain a policy that addresses information security for all personnel.</li>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>

> {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} is certified by a PCI Qualified Security Assessor (QSA) to be compliant with [PCI DSS 3.2.1](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/SAQ_D_v3_Merchant.pdf), as long as you take the actions outlined in [Responsibilities of the customer](#responsibilities-of-the-customer).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{ site.data.products.dedicated }} has implemented the requirements outlined in [PCI DSS 3.2.1](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/SAQ_D_v3_Merchant.pdf) within the DBaaS platform. For customers to take advantage of that compliance, they should take the actions outlined in [Responsibilities of the customer](#responsibilities-of-the-customer).
```

## Responsibilities of Cockroach Labs

> Cockroach Labs takes actions to ensure that our operating procedures and the deployment environment for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters meet or exceed the requirements of PCI DSS 3.2.1. Some of these actions include:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Cockroach Labs takes actions to ensure that the operating procedures and the deployment environment i.e. the platform for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters meet or exceed the requirements of PCI DSS 3.2.1. Some of these actions include:
```

- Enforcing comprehensive security policies and standards.
- Providing periodic security training for all Cockroach Labs employees.
- Hardening our operating environments and networks according to industry standards and recommended practices, to ensure that they are secure and resilient against vulnerabilities and attacks.
- Encrypting cluster data and metadata at rest and in transit.

> - Regularly scanning our environment using vendors designated by PCI as [Approved Scanning Vendors (ASVs)](https://www.pcidssguide.com/what-is-a-pci-approved-scanning-vendor-asv/) to ensure our continued compliance with PCI DSS 3.2.1, and correcting issues as quickly as possible.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Regularly scanning our environment using tools designated by PCI as [Approved Scanning Vendors (ASVs)](https://www.pcidssguide.com/what-is-a-pci-approved-scanning-vendor-asv/) to ensure our continued compliance with PCI DSS 3.2.1, and correcting issues as quickly as possible.
```

- Regularly scanning our environment and software for known security vulnerabilities and applying updates and security patches in a timely manner.

> - Implementing [data loss prevention (DLP)](https://pcidss.com/listing-category/data-loss-protection-dlp).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Implementing [data loss prevention (DLP)](https://pcidss.com/listing-category/data-loss-protection-dlp) tools & techniques.
```

- Logging cluster actions and events, redacting sensitive information in audit logs, and retaining audit logs according to the [logging requirements of PCI DSS](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/Effective-Daily-Log-Monitoring-Guidance.pdf).

A comprehensive list of all actions that Cockroach Labs takes to ensure compliance with PCI DSS 3.2.1 is beyond the scope of this document. For more information, contact your Cockroach Labs account team.

> Cockroach Labs automatically and regularly applies security and stability updates to {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters. These updates include, but are not limited to, the cluster's CockroachDB runtimes and APIs, the operating systems of cluster nodes, and management utilities. You are notified about upcoming cluster maintenance before it happens, when it starts, and when it completes. Refer to [Monitoring and Alerting](/docs/stable/monitoring-and-alerting.html). You can also read the release notes for [CockroachDB](/docs/releases/index.html) and for [{{ site.data.products.db }}](/docs/releases/cloud.html).

Reviewer 4: I would say remove this section. Applying security patches is already indicated in the list above, and having a specific point just on that would attract unnecessary attention. Especially when some of our customers are annoyed by maintenance related restarts - which will be resolved through maintenance windows coming up soon.

> Cockroach Labs automatically and regularly applies security and stability updates to {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters. These updates include, but are not limited to, the cluster's CockroachDB runtimes and APIs, the operating systems of cluster nodes, and management utilities. You are notified about upcoming cluster maintenance before it happens, when it starts, and when it completes. Refer to [Monitoring and Alerting](/docs/stable/monitoring-and-alerting.html). You can also read the release notes for [CockroachDB](/docs/releases/index.html) and for [{{ site.data.products.db }}](/docs/releases/cloud.html).

Author: ```suggestion
```

Compliance is a shared responsibility. Be sure to read [Responsibilities of the customer](#responsibilities-of-the-customer) to ensure that your cluster is compliant.

## Responsibilities of the customer

To ensure that a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster complies with PCI DSS 3.2.1, you must enable and configure the following cluster settings and features:

> - The cluster must be created as a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster. A private cluster's nodes have no public IP addresses, and its egress traffic moves over private subnets and through a highly-available NAT gateway that is unique to the cluster. An existing cluster cannot be migrated to be a private cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The dedicated cluster must be created as a [private cluster](private-clusters.html). A private cluster's nodes have no public IP addresses, and its egress traffic moves over private subnets and through a highly-available NAT gateway that is unique to the cluster. An existing cluster cannot be migrated to be a private cluster.
```

> - [Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK)](cmek.html) must be enabled on the cluster. CMEK protects data at rest in a CockroachDB Dedicated cluster using a cryptographic key that is entirely within your control, hosted in a supported key-management system (KMS) platform.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK)](cmek.html) must be enabled on the cluster. CMEK protects data at rest in a CockroachDB Dedicated cluster using a cryptographic key that is entirely within your control, hosted in a supported cloud provider key-management system (KMS). It enables file-based encryption of all new or updated data, and provides additional protection on top of the storage-level encryption of cluster disks.
```

> - [Egress Perimeter Controls](egress-perimeter-controls.html) must be enabled, Egress Perimeter Controls ensure that cluster egress operations, such as cluster backups, are restricted to a list of specified external destinations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Egress Perimeter Controls](egress-perimeter-controls.html) must be enabled, Egress Perimeter Controls ensure that cluster egress operations, such as customer-managed cluster backups or changefeeds, are restricted to a list of specified external destinations.
```

> - [Cluster log export](export-logs.html)'s redaction feature must be enabled to prevent the exposure of sensitive data in exported logs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Cluster log export](export-logs.html)'s redaction feature must be enabled to prevent the exposure of sensitive data in logs exported to customer's instance of AWS Cloudwatch or GCP Cloud Logging.
```

- [Cloud Organization audit logs](cloud-org-audit-logs.html) automatically capture information when many types of events occur in your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization, such as when a cluster is created or when a member is added to or removed from an organization.
- Cockroach Labs recommends enabling the following Single Sign-On (SSO) features, which helps you minimize the risk of password exposure in {{ site.data.products.db }}:

>   - [Cloud Organization SSO](configure-cloud-org-sso.html) allows members of your CockroachDB Cloud organization to authenticate to CockroachDB Cloud using an identity from an identity provider (IdP). Members can be manually created with passwords, and existing members can be migrated to SSO identities.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - [Cloud Organization SSO](configure-cloud-org-sso.html) allows members of your CockroachDB Cloud organization to authenticate to CockroachDB Cloud using an identity from an identity provider (IdP). This integration can be done using SAML or OIDC.
```

>   - [Cluster SSO](cloud-sso-sql.html) allows users to connect to the SQL interface of a CockroachDB cluster using an identity from an IdP. SQL users can be manually created with passwords, and existing members can be migrated to SSO identities. A wide variety of IdPs are supported, including CockroachDB Cloud, Google, Azure, GitHub, or your own self-hosted OIDC.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - [Cluster SSO](cloud-sso-sql.html) allows users to connect to the SQL interface of a CockroachDB cluster using a JWT (JSON Web Token). A variety of JWT issuers could be used, including CockroachDB Cloud (for connectivity using cloud CLI), GCP Service Accounts, Azure Managed Identities and more.
```

> Cockroach Labs cannot provide specific advice about ensuring end-to-end compliance with PCI DSS or how to implement a specific requirement across all operating environments. The following points help to illustrate some steps that organizations might take to ensure compliance, and is not exhaustive.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Cockroach Labs cannot provide specific advice about ensuring end-to-end compliance of your overall system with PCI DSS or how to implement a specific requirement across all operating environments. The following points help to illustrate some steps that organizations might take to ensure compliance, and is not exhaustive.
```

---
title: Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) Compliance in CockroachDB Dedicated
summary: Learn about compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) for CockroachDB Dedicated clusters.
toc: true
docs_area: manage.security
---

> {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} has been certified by a QSA as a PCI DSS [Level 1 Service Provider](https://www.pcidssguide.com/what-are-pci-service-provider-compliance-levels/). This certification extends the existing [SOC 2 Type 2 certification](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/soc-2-compliance-2/) of {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}, which provides a baseline level of security controls to safeguard customer data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{ site.data.products.dedicated }} has been certified by a PCI Qualified Security Assessor (QSA) as a PCI DSS [Level 1 Service Provider](https://www.pcidssguide.com/what-are-pci-service-provider-compliance-levels/). This certification extends the existing [SOC 2 Type 2 certification](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/soc-2-compliance-2/) of {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}, which provides a baseline level of security controls to safeguard customer data.
```

Cockroach Labs takes actions to ensure that the operating procedures and the deployment environment (the platform) for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters meet or exceed the requirements of PCI DSS 3.2.1. Some of these actions include:

- Enforcing comprehensive security policies and standards.
- Providing periodic security training for all Cockroach Labs employees.
- Hardening our operating environments and networks according to industry standards and recommended practices to ensure that they are secure and resilient against vulnerabilities and attacks.
- Encrypting cluster data and metadata at rest and in transit.
- Regularly scanning our environment using tools designated by PCI as [Approved Scanning Vendors (ASVs)](https://www.pcidssguide.com/what-is-a-pci-approved-scanning-vendor-asv/) to ensure our continued compliance with PCI DSS 3.2.1, and correcting issues as quickly as possible.
- Regularly scanning our environment and software for known security vulnerabilities and applying updates and security patches in a timely manner.
- Implementing [data loss prevention (DLP)](https://pcidss.com/listing-category/data-loss-protection-dlp) tools and techniques.

> - [Logging](cloud-org-audit-logs.html) cluster actions and events, redacting sensitive information in audit logs, and retaining audit logs according to the [logging requirements of PCI DSS](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/Effective-Daily-Log-Monitoring-Guidance.pdf).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Logging](cloud-org-audit-logs.html) cluster actions and events, redacting sensitive information in audit logs, and retaining audit logs according to the [PCI DSS logging requirements](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/Effective-Daily-Log-Monitoring-Guidance.pdf).
```

- [Cluster log exports](export-logs.html) must have the redaction feature enabled to prevent the exposure of sensitive data in logs exported to your instance of AWS CloudWatch or GCP Cloud Logging.
- [Cloud Organization audit logs](cloud-org-audit-logs.html) automatically capture information when many types of events occur in your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization, such as when a cluster is created or when a member is added to or removed from an organization. You can export your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization's audit logs to analyze usage patterns and investigate security incidents.

  {% include feature-phases/limited-access.md %}

- Cockroach Labs recommends enabling the following Single Sign-On (SSO) features, which helps you minimize the risk of password exposure in {{ site.data.products.db }}:
  - [Cloud Organization SSO](configure-cloud-org-sso.html) allows members of your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization to authenticate to {{ site.data.products.db }} using an identity from an identity provider (IdP). This integration can be done using SAML or OIDC.

>   - [Cluster SSO](cloud-sso-sql.html) allows users to connect to the SQL interface of a CockroachDB cluster using a JWT (JSON Web Token). A variety of JWT issuers can be configured, including {{ site.data.products.db }} (for connectivity using the `ccloud` CLI), GCP service accounts, Azure managed identities, and others.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - [Cluster SSO](cloud-sso-sql.html) allows users to connect to the SQL interface of a CockroachDB cluster using a JWT (JSON Web Token). A variety of JWT issuers can be configured, including {{ site.data.products.db }} (for connectivity using the [`ccloud` CLI](ccloud-get-started.html)), GCP service accounts, Azure managed identities, and others.
```

Many organizations who do not store cardholder data still rely upon PCI DSS to help protect other sensitive or confidential data or metadata.

Responsibility for compliance with PCI DSS is shared among multiple parties, including card issuers, banks, software-as-a-service (SaaS) providers, and retail merchants. Compliance measures are implemented as a series of business practices, security controls, and technological solutions. An organization's compliance with PCI DSS is certified by a PCI Qualified Security Assessor (QSA).

Cockroach Labs has been certified by a QSA as a PCI DSS [Level 1 Service Provider](https://www.pcidssguide.com/what-are-pci-service-provider-compliance-levels/). This certification extends the existing [SOC 2 Type 2 certification](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/soc-2-compliance-2/) of {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}. SOC 2 Type 2 provides a baseline level of security controls to safeguard customer data.

> This page provides information about {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}'s compliance with PCI DSS, describes some of the ways that {{ site.data.products.db }} implements and enforces compliance, and illustrates some of the types of changes you may need to implement outside of your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters. For detailed instructions and working examples, refer to [Integrate {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} with Satori](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/satori-integration.html).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This page provides information about {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}'s compliance with PCI DSS, describes some of the ways that {{ site.data.products.db }} implements and enforces compliance, and illustrates some of the types of changes you may need to implement outside of your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters. 
```

        <li>Encrypt transmission of cardholder data across open, public networks.</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Maintain a Vulnerability Management Program</td>
  <td><ol start="5">
        <li>Protect all systems against malware and regularly update antivirus software or programs.</li>
        <li>Develop and maintain secure systems and applications.</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Implement Strong Access Control Measures</td>
  <td><ol start="7">
        <li>Restrict access to cardholder data by business need to know<./li>
        <li>Identify and authenticate access to system components.</li>
        <li>Restrict physical access to cardholder data.</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Regularly Monitor and Test Networks</td>
  <td><ol start="10">
        <li>Track and monitor all access to network resources and cardholder data.</li>
        <li>Regularly test security systems and processes.</li>
      </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Maintain an Information Security Policy</td>
  <td><ol start="12">
        <li>Maintain a policy that addresses information security for all personnel.</li>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>

> {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} is certified by a PCI Qualified Security Assessor (QSA) to be compliant with PCI DSS [Self-Assessment Questionnaire D (SAQ-D)](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/SAQ_D_v3_Merchant.pdf), as long as you take the actions outlined in [How To Ensure Your Cluster's Compliance with PCI DSS](#how-to-ensure-your-clusters-compliance-with-pci-dss). SAQ-D has more stringent requirements than [SAQ-A](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/SAQ_A_v3.pdf), and many organizations require compliance with SAQ-D.

Reviewer 5: @mdlinville @MichaelTrestman I think we should re-word to something like

to be compliant with [PCI DSS 3.2.1](https://docs-prv.pcisecuritystandards.org/PCI%20DSS/Standard/PCI-DSS-v3-2-1-r1.pdf) 

IMO, we can drop the entire last sentence.

## Responsibilities of Cockroach Labs

> Cockroach Labs takes actions to ensure that our operating procedures and the deployment environment for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters meet or exceed the requirements of PCI DSS SAQ-D. Some of these actions include:

Reviewer 5: Change "SAQ-D" to 3.2.1

- Enforcing comprehensive security policies and standards.
- Providing periodic security training for all Cockroach Labs employees.
- Hardening our operating environments and networks according to industry standards and recommended practices, to ensure that they are secure and resilient against vulnerabilities and attacks.
- Encrypting cluster data and metadata at rest and in transit.

> - Regularly scanning our environment using vendors designated by PCI as [Approved Scanning Vendors (ASVs)](https://www.pcidssguide.com/what-is-a-pci-approved-scanning-vendor-asv/) to ensure our continued compliance with PCI DSS SAQ-D, and correcting issues as quickly as possible.

Reviewer 5: Change "SAQ-D" to 3.2.1

- Regularly scanning our environment and software for known security vulnerabilities and applying updates and security patches in a timely manner.
- Implementing [data loss prevention (DLP)](https://pcidss.com/listing-category/data-loss-protection-dlp).

> - Logging cluster actions and events, redacting sensitive information in audit logs, and retaining audit logs according to the [logging requirements of PCI DSS SAQ-D](https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/documents/Effective-Daily-Log-Monitoring-Guidance.pdf).

Reviewer 5: Change "SAQ-D" to 3.2.1

> A comprehensive list of all actions that Cockroach Labs takes to ensure compliance with PCI DSS SAQ-D is beyond the scope of this document. For more information, contact your Cockroach Labs account team.

Reviewer 5: Change "SAQ-D" to 3.2.1

Compliance is a shared responsibility. Be sure to read [Responsibilities of the customer](#responsibilities-of-the-customer) to ensure that your cluster is compliant.

## Responsibilities of the customer

> To ensure that a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster complies with PCI DSS SAQ-D, you must take additional steps, such as implementing security recommendations and carefully choosing business partners and vendors and ensuring that cardholder data is protected throughout its journey into and out of your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters.

Reviewer 5: Change "SAQ-D" to 3.2.1

> Cockroach Labs cannot provide specific advice about what is required for compliance with PCI DSS or how to implement a specific requirement. The following points help to illustrate some steps that organizations might take to help to ensure compliance.

Reviewer 4: @adbrenn - Do you think this para is valid now given we know specific features that customers must implement to comply with PCI?

Author: I think this is still valid, because we can't advise the customer about the design of their own client apps, what other vendors they are using as part of their solution, etc. It is still possible for them to make a mistake somewhere that defeats the PCI-DSS requirements, right?

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

> The following list is provided only to illustrate a small subset of the measures you might need to take to ensure compliance.

Reviewer 4: We should indicate that these are what must be used to ensure that a cluster is compliant with PCI-DSS.

> The following list is provided only to illustrate a small subset of the measures you might need to take to ensure compliance.

Author: ```suggestion
To be compliant with PCI-DSS, a { site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster must have the following features enabled:
```

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> - Ensure that your cluster is a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - Single Sign-On (SSO) helps you avoid storing user passwords in {{ site.data.products.db }}:

Author: ```suggestion
- The cluster must be a [private cluster](private-clusters.html). A private cluster's nodes have no public IP addresses and egress traffic moves over private subnets and through a highly-available NAT gateway that is unique to the cluster.
- Single Sign-On (SSO) helps you avoid storing user passwords in {{ site.data.products.db }}:
```

  - [Cloud Organization Single Sign-On (SSO)](configure-cloud-org-sso.html), which allows members of your CockroachDB Cloud organization to authenticate using an identity from an identity provider (IdP) instead of using an email address and password.
  - [Cluster SSO](cloud-sso-sql.html), which allows users to access the SQL interface of a CockroachDB cluster (whether provisioned on CockroachDB Cloud or self-hosted) with the full security of Single Sign-On (SSO), and the convenience of being able to choose from a variety of SSO identity providers, including CockroachDB Cloud, Google, Azure, GitHub, or your own self-hosted OIDC.
- Enable [Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK)](cmek.html), which allow you to protect data at rest in a CockroachDB Dedicated cluster using a cryptographic key that is entirely within your control, hosted in a supported key-management system (KMS) platform.

> - Protect your cluster's network from the public internet by enabling the following features:

Author: ```suggestion
```

>   - [Private Clusters](private-clusters.html), which ensure that cluster nodes have no public IP addresses and that egress traffic moves over private subnets and through a highly-available NAT gateway that is unique to the cluster.

Reviewer 4: Maybe mention this as a second point since the dedicated cluster would need to be created as a private one from outset.

Author: Moved.

>   - [Private Clusters](private-clusters.html), which ensure that cluster nodes have no public IP addresses and that egress traffic moves over private subnets and through a highly-available NAT gateway that is unique to the cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
```

>   - [Egress Perimeter Controls](egress-perimeter-controls.html), which ensure that cluster egress operations, such as cluster backups, are restricted to a list of specified external destinations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - [Egress Perimeter Controls](egress-perimeter-controls.html), which ensure that cluster egress operations, such as cluster backups or change data capture, are restricted to a list of specified external destinations.
```

> - Protect data that is written from your cluster to storage on your cloud provider by enabling and using the following features:

Reviewer 4: I didn't get this heading, how is it related to audit logs features?

Author: I thought part of the PCI-DSS aspect was to ensure that the logs are encrypted at rest in the cloud provider. Did I misunderstand? Is there a better heading that would tie together the three bullet points?

  - [Cluster log export](export-logs.html), which automatically exports logs from all nodes in all regions of your CockroachDB Dedicated cluster to your chosen cloud log sink. You must enable redaction of sensitive data in the log export configuration.
  - [Cloud Organization audit log export](cloud-org-audit-logs.html), which captures audit logs when many types of events occur in your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization, such as when a cluster is created or when a user is added to or removed from an organization.

>   - Your cloud provider's [IAM roles](../stable/cloud-storage-authentication.html), which provide an extra layer of authentication when your cluster or {{ site.data.products.db }} write data to your cloud provider, such as managed backups or [change data capture (CDC)](../stable/change-data-capture-overview.html) operations.

Reviewer 4: This is not needed.

Author: This was from your Slack message in https://cockroachlabs.slack.com/archives/C03GUEQ308N/p1672369958310469?thread_ts=1672342416.894089&cid=C03GUEQ308N. Did I misunderstand?

> In addition, follow these guidelines to ensure that your cluster is compliant with PCI DSS 3.2.1:

Author: ```suggestion
In addition, follow these recommendations to ensure that your cluster is compliant with PCI DSS 3.2.1:
```

> - Before you insert cardholder data into the cluster, you must first protect it by a combination of encryption, hashing, masking, and truncation. For an example implementation, refer to [Integrate {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} with Satori](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/satori-integration.html).

Reviewer 4: This is not a must-have requirement now. It's a recommendation but optional.

> - Before you insert cardholder data into the cluster, you must first protect it by a combination of encryption, hashing, masking, and truncation. For an example implementation, refer to [Integrate {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} with Satori](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/satori-integration.html).

Author: ```suggestion
- Before you insert cardholder data into the cluster, Cockroach Labs recommends that you first protect it by a combination of encryption, hashing, masking, and truncation. For an example implementation, refer to [Integrate {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} with Satori](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/satori-integration.html).
```

- The cryptographic materials used to protect cardholder data must themselves be protected at rest and in transit, and access to the unencrypted key materials must be strictly limited only to approved individuals.
- Within the cluster, you must restrict access to cardholder data on a "need to know basis" basis. Access to tables and views in the cluster that contain cardholder data must be restricted, and you must regularly test for compliance. Refer to [Authorization](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/authorization.html).
- You must protect networks that transmit cardholder data from malicious access over the public internet, and you must regularly test for compliance. For more information about protecting the cluster's networks, refer to [Network Authorization](network-authorization.html).

> - You must regularly test all systems, applications, and dependencies (including, but not limited to, application libraries, runtimes, container images, and testing frameworks) that are involved in storing or processing cardholder data for known vulnerabilities, you must regularly apply updates, and you must regularly test for compliance. Important security and stability updates are applied regularly and automatically to {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters. These updates include, but are not limited to, the cluster's CockroachDB runtime, the operating systems of cluster nodes, APIs, and management utilities. You are notified about upcoming cluster maintenance before it happens, when it starts, and when it completes. To configure notifications in the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console, refer to [Monitoring and Alerting](/docs/stable/monitoring-and-alerting.html). You can also read the release notes for [CockroachDB](/docs/releases/index.html) and for [{{ site.data.products.db }}](/docs/releases/cloud.html).

Reviewer 4: This should be removed. We are taking care of all of this, we shouldn't be telling customers to do so.

Author: I wrote this below.

> - You must regularly test all systems, applications, and dependencies (including, but not limited to, application libraries, runtimes, container images, and testing frameworks) that are involved in storing or processing cardholder data for known vulnerabilities, you must regularly apply updates, and you must regularly test for compliance. Important security and stability updates are applied regularly and automatically to {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters. These updates include, but are not limited to, the cluster's CockroachDB runtime, the operating systems of cluster nodes, APIs, and management utilities. You are notified about upcoming cluster maintenance before it happens, when it starts, and when it completes. To configure notifications in the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console, refer to [Monitoring and Alerting](/docs/stable/monitoring-and-alerting.html). You can also read the release notes for [CockroachDB](/docs/releases/index.html) and for [{{ site.data.products.db }}](/docs/releases/cloud.html).

Author: ```suggestion

Important security and stability updates are applied regularly and automatically to {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters. These updates include, but are not limited to, the cluster's CockroachDB runtime, the operating systems of cluster nodes, APIs, and management utilities. You are notified about upcoming cluster maintenance before it happens, when it starts, and when it completes. To configure notifications in the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console, refer to [Monitoring and Alerting](/docs/stable/monitoring-and-alerting.html). You can also read the release notes for [CockroachDB](/docs/releases/index.html) and for [{{ site.data.products.db }}](/docs/releases/cloud.html).

If your cluster is part of a solution that includes external systems and applications that store or process cardholder data, you must ensure that these systems and applications, as well as their dependencies, are compliant with PCI-DSS. You must regularly test these systems and applications for known vulnerabilities and compliance violations and regularly apply updates and mitigations. 
```

---
title: Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) compliance in CockroachDB Cloud Dedicated
summary: Learn about compliance with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) for CockroachDB Cloud Dedicated clusters.
toc: true
docs_area: manage.security
---

> The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is a series of requirements for the safe handling of sensitive data associated with credit and debit cards. In the rest of this article, this data is referred to as "card data". When implemented correctly, PCI DSS helps to protect your organization and your customers from fraud. PCI DSS is mandated by credit card issuers but administered by the [Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is a series of requirements for the safe handling of sensitive data associated with credit and debit cards. In the rest of this article, this data is referred to as "card data". When implemented correctly, PCI DSS helps to protect your organization and your customers from fraud, data theft, and other threats. PCI DSS is mandated by credit card issuers but administered by the [Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/).
```

> The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is a series of requirements for the safe handling of sensitive data associated with credit and debit cards. In the rest of this article, this data is referred to as "card data". When implemented correctly, PCI DSS helps to protect your organization and your customers from fraud. PCI DSS is mandated by credit card issuers but administered by the [Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/).

Reviewer 2: I would suggest we use the term "cardholder data", as in the PCI DSS Quick Reference Guide.

{% include v22.1/dedicated-pci-compliance.md %}

Responsibility for compliance with PCI DSS is shared among multiple parties, including card issuers, banks, software-as-a-service (SaaS) providers, and retail merchants. Compliance measures are implemented as a series of business practices, security controls, and technological solutions. An organization's compliance with PCI DSS is certified by a PCI Qualified Security Assessor (QSA).

This article provides information about {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}'s compliance with PCI DSS, describes some of the ways that {{ site.data.products.db }} implements and enforces compliance, and illustrates some of the types of changes you may need to implement outside of your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters. For detailed instructions and working examples, refer to [Integrate CockroachDB Dedicated with Satori](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/satori-integration.html).

## Overview of PCI DSS

When a system complies with PCI DSS, the system meets a series of requirements, according to a PCI Qualified Security Assessor (QSA). For example:

> 1. A firewall is installed and configured to scan all network traffic and prevent untrusted networks from accessing the system.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps this list should be reproduced exactly and with a precise citation from the PCI DSS Quick Reference Guide, rather than the *very close* paraphrasing here.

- The cryptographic materials used to protect card data must themselves be protected at rest and in transit, and access to the unencrypted key materials must be strictly limited only to approved individuals.
- Within the cluster, you must restrict access to card data on a "need to know basis" authorized individuals have access to tables and views in the cluster that contain card data, and you must regularly test for compliance. Refer to [Authorization](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/authorization.html).
- You must track, monitor, and log all access to card data and network resources. Within a cluster with PCI DSS enabled, {{ site.data.products.db }} enforces this requirement automatically. Refer to [Security and audit monitoring](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/logging-use-cases.html#security-and-audit-monitoring).
- You must protect networks that transmit card data from malicious access over the public internet, and you must regularly test for compliance. For more information about protecting the cluster's networks, refer to [Network Authorization](network-authorization.html).

> - You must regularly test all systems, applications, and dependencies (including, but not limited to, application libraries, runtimes, container images, and testing frameworks) that are involved in storing or processing card data for known vulnerabilities, you must regularly apply updates, and you must regularly test for compliance. Important security and stability updates are applied regularly and automatically to {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters. These updates include, but are not limited to, the cluster's CockroachDB runtime, the operating systems of cluster nodes, APIs, and management utilities. You are notified about upcoming cluster maintenance before it happens, when it starts, and when it completes.

Reviewer 2: Notified how? An email list... callouts on the website or docs...
Should we link here to release notes and/or technical advisories? https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/advisories/index.html

Author: They are notified by whatever mechanisms they set up in Cockroach Cloud, I think. Let me see what I can do.
